New William S. Burroughs Book Sheds Light On The Literary Legend's Influence On Music : NPR
"A bullet leaves the chamber and narrowly misses its target. The tape machine repays the loop: forward, backward; backward, forward. The bullet re-enters the chamber from the barrel end. A gaunt man cocks his eye and takes aim. Again, the reel clatters, the scene unfolds. Backward. Forward. The gun is steadied. The woman turns her head. A shot rings out."
"Burroughs believed humanity is imprisoned by this hostile power, which perpetuates itself through the virus of language and establishes a foothold through what he called 'the algebra of need.' Anything that can be used to condition behavior is an asset of Control. And yet the same tools can be used to fight back. Employing words, sounds, images — reordered and weaponized — Burroughs sought to demolish pernicious systems of repression and degradation, including social, civic, and religious dogmas."
"Is Burroughs a good influence? The answer probably depends on the observer. Nevertheless, it is telling that so many other artists found something relatable in his work, lifestyle, attitude, and intellect."
Gabino Iglesias is an author, book reviewer and professor living in Austin, Texas. Find him on Twitter at
Burroughs rose to fame while working on the fringes of mainstream literature during the Beat era. Today he is know for novels like dedrpiece, was banned upon publication for being obscene. The novel's bizarre topics, outré characters, wild situations, sexual content, and nonlinear structure perfectly mirrored Burroughs' personality, tastes, and beliefs — all of which appealed to the most daring, innovative musicians of the 1960s, '70s, and '80s.
Casey Rae's urroughs and the Cult of Rock 'n' Roll f magazine interviews, biographies, books, phone calls, emails and personal interviews, Rae deftly maps out how one of America's most controversial literary figures — a homosexual drug addict with a penchant for guns who shot his wife in the head — transformed the lives of many notable musicians. He thus helped, without trying, to shape the history of audio recording, punk, industrial music, and rock and roll.
For pioneering musicians, hanging with Burroughs became a rite of passage, a sort of logical step in a life spent looking for extreme experiences and new artistic frontiers. Furthermore, Burroughs' cut-up techniques for producing lyrics as well as sounds influenced a plethora of artists in many mediums. In Rae's words, "Burroughs people tend to find one another. And then they form bands." These people included luminaries like Bob Dylan, Patti Smith, Kurt Cobain, Michael Stipe, Thurston Moore, David Bowie, Lou Reed, and many others.
Hardcover, 240 pages 
In other words, Burroughs' entire belief system was the core of rock and roll, the blueprint for artistic rebellion. ter who changed literature forever with his magic and ideas; it also finally gives him the place he deserves in the pantheon of rock and roll.
Rae, a musician, professor, and cultural critic, is a music lover and a Burroughs fan. Both things shine through in this book. He writes with the passion of a teenager discovering new sounds, and the control and self-assuredness of a seasoned academic. Between external sources and his own research and phone and email interviews, Rae creates a complex, rich picture of Burroughs' life, focusing on his meetings with musicians and the way his techniques and ideas infiltrated them and changed the way they looked at the world as well as their own work. While doing this, Rae stays true to history and always presents Burroughs' duality; shaman and madman, writer and hermit, traveling man and depressed genius. The mixture came to embody rock and roll:
Reading S. Burroughs and the Cult of Rock 'n' Roll al on avantgarde creators. He believed there was a major hegemonic force at play in the world. He called this force Control, and considered it the primary enemy keeping people from spiritual and psychic liberation:
Simply put, Burroughs embodied the rebellious spirit of rock and roll, and that attracted those for whom rebellion was the only conceivable choice in life.
The biggest stories and ideas — from politics to pop culture — in 10 minutes.
The role William S. Burroughs played in shaping literature is well known. But his influence on rock and roll hasn't been as well-documented.
While the focus is on music and Burroughs' techniques and ideas,  biography. Rae deals with the most crucial events in the writer's life. From his homosexuality to the history of his novels, this book adds to the Burroughs canon in a unique way. Rae is a professional and an academic, but the writing here, especially when dealing with music and some of the most traumatic moments in Burroughs' career, flirts with literary fiction without even abandoning the real of nonfiction. A perfect example comes from his discussion of the killing of Burroughs' wife, Joan Vollmer, who the author shot in the head while allegedly undertaking a William Tell trick they often performed at parties. While drunkenness and drug use muddled the memories of the event for many — and Burroughs himself went back and forth on what happened — the consensus, according to Rae, is that Burroughs accidentally missed the shot:
